Ejercicio 1 - ETIMOLOGÍAS

Saturno: Saturn (Saturnus) was a Roman god with a similar history to Cronus from Greek mythology. Often depicted in art wielding a scythe he was considered an agricultural god, especially associated with seed-corn. The Saturnalia festival, named after him, was one of the most important and lively events in the Roman calendar and the god also had a major temple dedicated to him in the Roman Forum of Rome.
https://www.ancient.eu/Saturn/ 

Jupiter: Among the many gods of the Romans, Jupiter, the son of Saturn, was the supreme god, associated with thunder, lightning, and storms. 
https://www.ancient.eu/jupiter/

Ítalo: Italus or Italos was a legendary king of the Oenotrians, who were among the earliest inhabitants of Italy. In his Fabularum Liber (or Fabulae), Gaius Julius Hyginus recorded the myth that Italus was a son of Penelope and Telegonus.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italus

Etruscus: Herennius Etruscus (Latin: Caesar Quintus Herennius Etruscus Messius Decius Augustus; c. 227–June 251), was Roman emperor in 251, ruling jointly with his father Decius.Tyrrhenus: In Etruscan mythology, Tyrrhenus (in Greek: Τυρρηνός) was one of the founders of the Etruscan League of twelve cities, along with his brother Tarchon. 

Lydus: Lydus (Greek: Λυδός) was the third king of Maeonia in succession to his father Atys. He was the third and last king of the Atyad dynasty. 

Maeonia: Lydia. The Kingdom of Lydia existed from about 1200 BCE to 546 BCE.

------------------------------------------------
Ejercicio 2 - MARCO POLO

Baldwin II: Count of Flanders, and cousin of Louis IX. King of France, who reigned from 1237 to 1261, was the last of the Latin emperors of Constantinople. 

Niccolo Polo: Niccolò Polo (c. 1230 – c. 1294) was a Venetian merchant and explorer, the brother of Maffeo Polo, and the father of Marco Polo. 

Maffeo Polo: brother of Niccolo Polo.

1250: There are strong grounds, Marsden says, for believing that this date of 1250, although found in all the editions, is incorrect. In the manuscript, of which there are copies in the British Museum and Berlin libraries, the commencement of the voyage is placed in 1252, and some of the events related in the sequel render it evident that the departure, at least, of our travellers from Constantinople, must have been some years later than the middle of the century, and probably not sooner than 1255. How long they were detained in that city is not stated; but, upon any calculation of the period of their arrival or departure, it is surprising that Grynams, the editor of the Basle and Paris edition of 1532, and after him the learned Miiller and Bergeron, should, notwithstanding the anachronism, introduce into their texts the date of 1269, which was eight years after the expulsion of the emperor Baldwin, and was, in fact, the year in which they returned to Syria from their first Tartarian journey. 

Soldaia: Was the name given in the middle ages to tne place (the Tauro-Scythian port of the ancients) now called Sudak, situated near the southern extremity of the Crimea or Tauric Chersonesus. It is described in these words: " About the midst of the said province towards the south, as it were upon a sharp angle or point, standeth a city called Soldaia, directly against Synopolis. And there doe all the Turkic merchants, which traffique into the north countries, in their journey outward, arrive, and as they return homeward also from Russia, and the said northern regions, into Turkic." 

Barka: This Tartar prince is usually named Bereke, the successor, and said to be the brother, of Batu, the son of Tushi, eldest son of Jengiz-khan; who inherited, as his portion of the dominions of his grandfather (although not in full sovereignty), the western countries of Kapchak or Kipchak, Allan, Russ, and Bulgar, and died in 1256. 

Bolgara: The Bolgar, Bulgar, or Bulghar, here spoken of, is the name of a town and an extensive district in Tartary, lying to the eastward of the Wolga, and now inhabited by the Bashkirs, sometimes distinguished from the Bulgaria on the Danube, by the appellation of the Greater Bulgaria. 

Assara: is the city of Sarai (with the definitive article prefixed), situated on the eastern arm of the Wolga, or Achtuba. " The Astrachan mentioned by Balducci Pegoletti was not on the same spot where that town stands now, but the ancient Astrachan was demolished, together with Saray, by the emperor Timur, in the winter of 1395. The old town of Saray was pretty near the ancient Astrachan."

https://archive.org/details/marcopolo00polouoft


------------------------------------------------
Ejercicio  3- LA ARGENTINA MANUSCRITA

ÁLVAR NÚÑEZ
Spanish discoverer and conqueror who explored the southern coast of North America, territories that they went on to annex the Spanish Empire within the Viceroyalty of New Spain. King Carlos I of Spain granted him the title of Second Adelantado and appointed him captain general and governor of the Río de la Plata, Paraná Guazu and its annexes. He was the first European to reach the Iguazú falls and who explored the course of the Paraguay River.

CARIBES
The reference of Caribes was made for the first time by Christopher Columbus. It was also used repeatedly in the course of the sixteenth century to characterize American societies that practiced ritual cannibalism.

GUAYANAS
One of the names that the Kaigang natives received, identified with the tradition of Taquara, builders of low-level settlements. They extended in Brazil between the coast (occupied by Tupi) and the interior areas (to the lands occupied by the Guarani).

MARTÍNEZ IRALA
Domingo Martinez de Irala (Spain, 1509 - Viceroyalty of Peru, 1556) was a Spanish conquistador, explorer and colonizer. He was interim governor of the Río de la Plata and Paraguay, on three occasions. From 1555 he held the titular position until his death.

LAGUNA DEL DORADO
Legend born of the Tupi-Guarani beliefs in conjunction with the expectations of the Portuguese and Spanish conquerors regarding the metal wealth that could be found in South America.

REBELION Y ALZAMIENTO
Cycle of revolts called war against the Tamoios, Tupi community that rose against the portuguese since the second half of the XVI century.

FUNDACION Y CONQUISTA
Fundation of the city of Corrientes by the adelantado Juan Torres de Vera y Aragón, with Alonso de Vera y Aragón and Hernando Arias de Saavedra.

CÉSARES
The mythical City of the Caesars, Sierra de la Plata according to querandíes informants, it would be a rich native civilization that the conquerors of the Río de la Plata and Chile would look for insistently during later centuries.
